(whistling)
Alright, in this one I wanted to do
just dead simple equal height columns
and talk a little bit about what you do
with the extra columns at the end
once they've wrapped on.
So, what I've got here is
I've got div with class of elements
and then I've got a whole bunch of divs here
with some text in it.
So, um, open up your style dot CSS
and again, all this is just regular CSS
to make it look decent.
We are going to start down here.
So, if I want these things to go beside each other,
I want them to be in columns
and I want them to be of equal height of the largest one.
How do we do that?
Well, go ahead and select the elements.
So elements again.
This is going to be our ... you tell me.
Flex container, good I heard you from wherever you are.
So we'll say display ... flex, and give it a save.
Refresh and oh, holy smokes.
So what it does by default is, it will put them together.
And how is it determining the width of these columns?
Well, Arkansas is determining the width of these columns.
And that's really not what we want,
but when you say flex, things by default are in a row
and they will just go forever.
They do not ... wrap.
That's the word we're looking for.
They do not wrap by default.
So how do we turn wrapping on?
Well, flex, wrap, wrap.
Give it a save and bam.
Okay, it's starting to, it's starting to wrap and
it's kind of interesting.
This is something that you might want.
It kinda just tried to fit as many as it possibly can.
How big are these elements here?
They are as big as the content needs them to be.
Sometimes you only get one on a line.
Sometimes you get two, I don't really see any three,
but if I were to make this bigger,
you'll see that you can fit
a whole bunch of 'em on the line.
So, that'd be kind of a cool layout for tags or something
on a WordPress blog. However, we also want to
give these a width cause we wanna be able to
sort of fit them in as we can so,
select the flex items. That's flex items I believe?
Yes it is, and we'll say flex one grow one shrink and
let's give it a 33.33% width, save and, huh
okay-well-it's, first of all we've got our columns here
it's working but let's put that on hold for a second.
I said 33.33 and there's only 2 on there.
So what's the deal here? Well since we explicitly gave it
a width and If you look up here I gave it a margin of 10px.
Again we're over budget 33 plus 33 plus 33 plus 20 pixles
of margin on either one or over 100% budget.
So what we could do there is just set that to calc-20 px
right? Cause we're gonna have 10 px on either side.
Uh and calc is not part of the flex box.
Is just part of CSS3 it's actuall. Can I use dot comma?
Let's take a look. What's the support?
Support is really good if you're using flex box
Flex box doesn't work on IE9's so if you're using flex box
you can go ahead and use calc as well.
Calc we're gonna set to 33.33% percent minus the 20 pixels
that we need uh and that should give us 3 per line.
There we go. Alright so let's look what's happening here
is, this is as bare basic as you can get for equal height
columns by default flex box will just make the column
as high or alow as it needs to be. So this one is
is pretty high maybe if we go in here and take these
ones really small. So just put like 1 word in each.
Give it a save, see look how these won't serve much
higher than these ones it just says alright who is in my row
and how tall are you and I'm going to size myself as tall
as the highest one! So that's great um.
If we scroll down to the bottom here you'll notice that
we've got a number that's not easily divisible by 3 or is
not cleanly divisible by 3 So what the browser does-says "no
problem I'll just split up the extra area" that's the whole
point of the flex um and that's great but if you don't like
that look we have a couple of other options we go to the
CSS-Tricks article here and we've been dealing a lot
with the uh align content and align item where align
items where we go it vertically we can just do it on the
flex end or the center and things like that.
But we're not really concerned with vertical here we're
concerned with horizontal and how are these items uh
split up. So which one are we actually worried about?
We're looking at justified content so again this goes on
the- this is a flex container element so we're gonna go
ahead and put it on the flex container and with justified
content um and we can do things like space between, and
you'll notice that it- it doesn't work and the reason
behind that is because we've told it to flex grow in this
case we've got extra space and we've told it to evenly split
the extra amounts to. If we change it to 0 uh what that will
do is, in the situation where we have more space than we
need. Which is the case.
We previously told it to just split it up
evenly and it did. But if we say zero do nothing with
add the extra space now we've got this extra space on
here uh and the items are going to go on either end.
Let's take a look at the other ones since we've got this
extra space that's left over. Justified content let's us
do- we just did space between which it takes the extra space
and just puts it in between and since we only have 2
elements here, it just puts it all in between the 2
elements in one big go um but we could also say things like
space around, which will split it between here, here and
here uh as well as flex start. Flex end you probably get the
point here uh or I really like to do center which makes it
look kinda neat and tidy, depending on the (inaudible)
Um what you might be tempted to say- nah I don't like that
let's bring it back to stretch and give it a save and
it won't work and why not? Because stretch is not just a
justified property you'll see it's not listed here but
how do we do that? Well we just take justified content all
the way off and we tell our items to grow with the extra
space and a magnitude of one and we're off to the races and
good to go. So again super simple um this is something that
a lot of people need to use flex box for uh so keep this
one handy and I'll see you in the next video!
[Whistling Outro]